#summary Project changelog.
#labels Featured

= Aug 29 2012 =

First version!

= Sep 6 2012 = 

Added a few features for plugin support.

  * new `getX`, `getY`, `getZ` and `getSubset` functions in the `lib` directory let you write plugins more easily. As an example, `plot3D.m` uses these three functions to generate a 3D scatterplot of the data shown in the window.
  * `fetch` also exposed. Can be used to retrieve a variable from the workspace. Use of this function is encouraged, as it future-proofs changes.

= Nov 23 2012 =
Version 1.0.2 alpha (  -r36)

Added file import and output!

  * new GUI layout
  * new file import and export. Supports a variety of ascii-based formats

 
= Mar 22 2013 =
Version 1.1 alpha (r37-r59)

Many new features:

  * state saving: you can save and resume exactly where you left
  * save on exit dialog
  * MAIN m-file for packaging
  * added frame field
  * "sieve" menu items
  * no need for palmsiever_setup.m
  * circle default pointset. rendering min/max fixed.
  * redraw now forced each time a plugin is called
  * now supports Leica GSD .ascii format
  * removed dependency on prctile from stats toolbox
  * added calcHistogram
  * toNanometers now works on all XY var names

New plugins
  * drift correction with fiducials
  * generic_command.m
  * a plugin to tune the limits to achieve a specified pixels size

= Apr 09 2014 =
Version 1.2 alpha (r60-r99)

  * Some bug exterminating
  * new 3D isosurface plugin
  * new DBSCAN plugin
  * FIRE
  * new double Gaussian fitting plugin

= Aug 12 2014 =
  * Fixed a bug affecting grouping and other plugins
  * Added lots of documentation to the Wiki!

= Aug 18 2014 =
  * New Tracer plugin, replacing functionality in the Trace menu

= Aug 20 2014 =
  * Fixed a bug in the Z_cross_section plugin.

= Sep 04 2014 =
  * removed spurious plugins-test from repository
  * solved bug in grouping.m due to inputdlg
  * fixed bug in show-trace for Tracer plugin
  * modified definition of gap in grouping
  * tracking in beta
  * T in startup data is now integer
  * removed auto-refresh in plugins
  * fixed 'To Figure' button