#summary Installation guide

== Requirements =

PALM-siever is a MATLAB application. At the moment, for some features it needs `DipImage` too to run. You can download it from [http://www.diplib.org]. Follow the instructions to install it on your platform. If you can't install it or don't want to, you can still use PALMsiever, but some parts will not work. See [NoDipImage].

== Installation =

  # Make sure `DipImage` is installed and remember the installation directory, which we will refer to as _DIP_DIR_
  # Copy “palm-siever-XXX.zip” to a folder of your choice _PALM_DIR_ or download the latest version with
{{{
svn checkout http://palm-siever.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/ palm-siever-read-only
}}}
  # Open MATLAB
  # Execute: (substitute _PALM_DIR_ with the dir where you extracted palm-siever)
{{{
addpath PALM_DIR
}}}
  # Modify the `palmsiever_setup.m` file to reflect your _DIP_DIR_.
  # Download this [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B4HKt81OmiaJSnJ3cGhIc05RYmc/edit?usp=sharing example data] to facilitate exploration of PALMsiever.

== Quickstart =

Once you added _PALM_DIR_ to your MATLAB path, simply run:

{{{
PALMsiever
}}}

If you're simply trying the software out, or don't wish to change your path, you can change your MATLAB working directory to _PALM_DIR_ and run PALMsiever from there.

From the menu, you can import a number of different text file formats. If your particular format is not present, try the generic text import. Note that it might take some time to load and parse a long set of peaks. The data is loaded in the MATLAB workspace, with each column of the file as a separate variable.

That's it! Feel free to tinker with the interface. The right-hand side shows the list of all variables, the left shows the rendered image.
 